readme.md, before:

# Smart Dash Interface

This Python script creates a Smart Dash Pygame interface for a landscape 4.3-inch display. It utilizes Pygame for graphics rendering and OBD-II for vehicle data retrieval.

## Needs

- A Bluetooth OBD-II adapter.

## Raspberry Pi Installation

### You can find all these commands in [Download Script](https://github.com/Carson-Spaniel/Smart-Dash-Interface/blob/main/download.sh)
1. Move into the home directory with `cd /home/pi/`.
2. Run `wget -O Dash.tar.xz https://github.com/Carson-Spaniel/Smart-Dash-Interface/releases/latest/download/Dash.tar.xz` to download the files.
3. Run `tar -xJvf Dash.tar.xz` to unpack everything.
4. Change into the Dash directory using `cd Dash/`.
5. Run `sudo ./install.sh` to start the installation and connection with your Bluetooth device.
6. Ensure you have a Bluetooth OBD-II adapter paired with your device and put into either the `boot.sh` script (Bluetooth connection) or `dash.py` script.
7. Reboot your raspberry pi.

## Features

- **Main Page**:

  ![Main Page Screenshot](https://github.com/Carson-Spaniel/Smart-Dash-Interface/blob/main/Screenshots/Main.png)
  
  ![Main Page with Optimize On Screenshot](https://github.com/Carson-Spaniel/Smart-Dash-Interface/blob/main/Screenshots/Optimize.png) (Optimize on)
  - Displays real-time vehicle data such as RPM, speed, voltage, fuel level, ambient temperature, and MPG.
  - Shift lights.
  - Clickable buttons to navigate to other pages.

- **Customization Page**

  ![Customization Settings Page Screenshot](https://github.com/Carson-Spaniel/Smart-Dash-Interface/blob/main/Screenshots/Customize.png)

  - Change font color.
  - Change Background 1 color: RPM and Fuel level background.
  - Change Background 2 color: Main background. 

- **Shift Light Customization Page**

  ![Shift Light Settings Page Screenshot](https://github.com/Carson-Spaniel/Smart-Dash-Interface/blob/main/Screenshots/Shift.png)

  - Shift light toggle.
  - Shift light color 1: First color to appear in shift sequence.
  - Shift light color 2: Second color to appear in shift sequence.
  - Shift light color 3: Third color to appear in shift sequence.
  - Shift light color 4: Fourth and blinking color to appear in shift sequence.
  - Shift Starting RPM: Where the lights start to turn on.

- **General Settings Page**:

  ![General Settings Page Screenshot](https://github.com/Carson-Spaniel/Smart-Dash-Interface/blob/main/Screenshots/General.png)
  - Option to flip the display vertically (to act as a Heads Up Display).
  - Brightness adjustment.
  - Delay readings: Slow down all readings to happen at the same time.
  - Optimize readings: Only read RPM and Fuel level data.

- **RPM Settings Page**:

  ![RPM Settings Page Screenshot](https://github.com/Carson-Spaniel/Smart-Dash-Interface/blob/main/Screenshots/RPM.png)

  - Allows adjustment of RPM_MAX and SHIFT values.

- **System Settings Page**:

  ![System Settings](https://github.com/Carson-Spaniel/Smart-Dash-Interface/blob/main/Screenshots/System.png)

  - Version.
  - Wifi update: Be able to update the system when connected to wifi.

- **Trouble Code Page**:

  ![Trouble Code Page Screenshot](https://github.com/Carson-Spaniel/Smart-Dash-Interface/blob/main/Screenshots/Trouble.png)
  - Allows for reading and clearing of Check Engine Light codes.

- **Chevrolet Camaro Logo Animation**:
  - Displayed on startup (can be changed in the code).

## Configuration

- **Environment Variables**:
  - `DEV`: Set to `True` if testing, `False` if running with a connection to the car.
  - `PI`: Set to `True` if running on Raspberry Pi with Bluetooth, `False` for other platforms.

- **Fonts**:
  - The script uses digital-7.ttf font for text rendering. Ensure it's in the correct directory or update font paths.

- **Bluetooth Connection**:
  - Configure the correct port for the Bluetooth connection (`port = "/dev/rfcomm0"` for Raspberry Pi, `"COM5"` for Windows).

## Items List
- [Raspberry Pi 4 Model B](https://www.amazon.com/Raspberry-Model-2019-Quad-Bluetooth/dp/B07TC2BK1X/ref=sr_1_1?crid=2BYNDBGLENAC5&dib=eyJ2IjoiMSJ9._PqCjKFXecURzDfuwZg7dnSe-rn341n1YEUC3kxkYF-fUtGzxgoMMPWaAILcn0KOAk9GBqVxr0qMogiZ0hanIqy5fR2zahX1IITuSesTy7IeXEuWiWbtfjlO2WnfbhDOJijqyRA6b1dW__aL7P3GIR-EdczlNudnAYbhFope4fqo2Q9yVhmqmUEm0phh1Md91q1SKzmfvBCGbQbmJx9gIjg_rjtShxjMSWl1p7gtT49lYMelpwEAaVOOC-unZja2v2CHsWKokxWj2CcMSekV-h9E5p_7LKkBuQDeRHcLHNk.--3ONeF3E3njn6i4GFKc_EO_06h6CLneroWD_nEM2rI&dib_tag=se&keywords=raspberry%2Bpi%2B4b&qid=1724778256&s=electronics&sprefix=rasberry%2Bpi%2B4b%2Celectronics%2C129&sr=1-1&th=1)
- [4.3inch DSI Touchscreen LCD Display with Case for Raspberry Pi 4B](https://www.amazon.com/dp/B09B29T8YF/?coliid=IXOU52HY9KKDL&colid=3DH0CV6R3JLCG&ref_=list_c_wl_lv_ov_lig_dp_it&th=1)
- [Bluetooth OBD II Scanner](https://www.amazon.com/Veepeak-OBDCheck-Bluetooth-Diagnostic-Supports/dp/B073XKQQQW/ref=sr_1_2?crid=2TKSEUFTYTC0J&dib=eyJ2IjoiMSJ9.cDU5tykXBvNKabKDav9eh5h5Qbph9bgA5-QG0BN5lTpuN1Ud5sjlaOt3HjeilOAJjSZgB82fUeHNj5DBdSesmlkaLE5y21QmGkhW6-TQWs_roTX6A8kNwkImi6C_zYqbL9K-Jfei9IqlR02fezhNF9okMUYdS9d23rLWG4gGrHNUt_kydlCzeDboiAO8bTlw5Djb4s3wppV9fPohEpu4suO2ODDZB2mqncf3-ZIEt5tm5kw2hWVNcI9yipuRDSPXBtXx9N4kSMvNCq8tQcaI0owKePp1eIyxNWevf2xsGQ4.vz9kAGDDxcmWIAAc3c8dC6pOX_AT30D2pvrI-MXQH6A&dib_tag=se&keywords=elm+327+obd2+scanner+bluetooth&qid=1724778387&sprefix=elm+%2Caps%2C148&sr=8-2)

## Additional Notes

- The script simulates data in `DEV` mode. Ensure to connect a Bluetooth OBD-II adapter in production mode.
- A Bluetooth OBD-II adapter makes it cleaner, but it will also work with a wired setup.
- Any Raspberry Pi should work but just make sure you have Bluetooth unless running a wired connection.
- Feel free to customize fonts, colors, and layout as needed in the script.

## Upcoming
- Performance page: top speed tracking, 0-60 time tracking, more performance related things.

## Far Future
- Raspberry Pi hotspot for wifi connection to phone for GPS data for GPS related features.

## Versions

### v2.4.0
- Added
  - Shift Light Settings: can now change the colors of the shift light as well as adjust the "padding" which is how you control when the lights start turing on.

### v2.3.2
- Updated
  - Colors: Much more colors have been added.

### v2.3.1
- Fixed
  - Wifi Update: some problems associated with old code.
  - Exiting: Shutdown was encountering an error.

### v2.3.0
- Added
  - Color Customization: can now change the colors of the font and backgrounds.

### v2.2.0
- Added
  - Wifi Update: be able to update the device over wifi.

### v2.1.2
- Fixed
  - Install script bug: wouldn't let you pick a number from the bluetooth list.

### v2.1.1
- Fixed
  - Install scripts: trying to make it even easier with as little interaction as possible.

### v2.1.0
- Added
  - Customization Page: Added customization page that will be used to customize the overall look of the dash.

### v2.0.0
- Added
  - Versioning: Implemented versions for future updates.
  - Swiping gestures: Can now swipe on the screen rather than pressing hard to press buttons.
- Changed
  - Overall page layout: Changed to a 2D format to more categorize pages.

### v1.x.x 
- All previous versions were not documented.
- This is where the current readme is at.

Commit message:

changed the install process to work for a headless OS

readme.md, after:

# Smart Dash Interface

This Python script creates a Smart Dash Pygame interface for a landscape 4.3-inch display. It utilizes Pygame for graphics rendering and OBD-II for vehicle data retrieval.

## Needs

- A Bluetooth OBD-II adapter.

## Raspberry Pi Installation

### You can find all these commands in [Download Script](https://github.com/Carson-Spaniel/Smart-Dash-Interface/blob/main/download.sh)
1. Move into the home directory with `cd /home/pi/`.
2. Run `wget -O Dash.tar.xz https://github.com/Carson-Spaniel/Smart-Dash-Interface/releases/latest/download/Dash.tar.xz` to download the files.
3. Run `tar -xJvf Dash.tar.xz` to unpack everything.
4. Change into the Dash directory using `cd Dash/`.
5. Run `sudo ./install.sh` to start the installation and connection with your Bluetooth device.
6. Ensure you have a Bluetooth OBD-II adapter paired with your device and put into either the `boot.sh` script (Bluetooth connection) or `dash.py` script.
7. Reboot your raspberry pi.

## Features

- **Main Page**:

  ![Main Page Screenshot](https://github.com/Carson-Spaniel/Smart-Dash-Interface/blob/main/Screenshots/Main.png)
  
  ![Main Page with Optimize On Screenshot](https://github.com/Carson-Spaniel/Smart-Dash-Interface/blob/main/Screenshots/Optimize.png) (Optimize on)
  - Displays real-time vehicle data such as RPM, speed, voltage, fuel level, ambient temperature, and MPG.
  - Shift lights.
  - Clickable buttons to navigate to other pages.

- **Customization Page**

  ![Customization Settings Page Screenshot](https://github.com/Carson-Spaniel/Smart-Dash-Interface/blob/main/Screenshots/Customize.png)

  - Change font color.
  - Change Background 1 color: RPM and Fuel level background.
  - Change Background 2 color: Main background. 

- **Shift Light Customization Page**

  ![Shift Light Settings Page Screenshot](https://github.com/Carson-Spaniel/Smart-Dash-Interface/blob/main/Screenshots/Shift.png)

  - Shift light toggle.
  - Shift light color 1: First color to appear in shift sequence.
  - Shift light color 2: Second color to appear in shift sequence.
  - Shift light color 3: Third color to appear in shift sequence.
  - Shift light color 4: Fourth and blinking color to appear in shift sequence.
  - Shift Starting RPM: Where the lights start to turn on.

- **General Settings Page**:

  ![General Settings Page Screenshot](https://github.com/Carson-Spaniel/Smart-Dash-Interface/blob/main/Screenshots/General.png)
  - Option to flip the display vertically (to act as a Heads Up Display).
  - Brightness adjustment.
  - Delay readings: Slow down all readings to happen at the same time.
  - Optimize readings: Only read RPM and Fuel level data.

- **RPM Settings Page**:

  ![RPM Settings Page Screenshot](https://github.com/Carson-Spaniel/Smart-Dash-Interface/blob/main/Screenshots/RPM.png)

  - Allows adjustment of RPM_MAX and SHIFT values.

- **System Settings Page**:

  ![System Settings](https://github.com/Carson-Spaniel/Smart-Dash-Interface/blob/main/Screenshots/System.png)

  - Version.
  - Wifi update: Be able to update the system when connected to wifi.

- **Trouble Code Page**:

  ![Trouble Code Page Screenshot](https://github.com/Carson-Spaniel/Smart-Dash-Interface/blob/main/Screenshots/Trouble.png)
  - Allows for reading and clearing of Check Engine Light codes.

- **Chevrolet Camaro Logo Animation**:
  - Displayed on startup (can be changed in the code).

## Configuration

- **Environment Variables**:
  - `DEV`: Set to `True` if testing, `False` if running with a connection to the car.
  - `PI`: Set to `True` if running on Raspberry Pi with Bluetooth, `False` for other platforms.

- **Fonts**:
  - The script uses digital-7.ttf font for text rendering. Ensure it's in the correct directory or update font paths.

- **Bluetooth Connection**:
  - Configure the correct port for the Bluetooth connection (`port = "/dev/rfcomm0"` for Raspberry Pi, `"COM5"` for Windows).

## Items List
- [Raspberry Pi 4 Model B](https://www.amazon.com/Raspberry-Model-2019-Quad-Bluetooth/dp/B07TC2BK1X/ref=sr_1_1?crid=2BYNDBGLENAC5&dib=eyJ2IjoiMSJ9._PqCjKFXecURzDfuwZg7dnSe-rn341n1YEUC3kxkYF-fUtGzxgoMMPWaAILcn0KOAk9GBqVxr0qMogiZ0hanIqy5fR2zahX1IITuSesTy7IeXEuWiWbtfjlO2WnfbhDOJijqyRA6b1dW__aL7P3GIR-EdczlNudnAYbhFope4fqo2Q9yVhmqmUEm0phh1Md91q1SKzmfvBCGbQbmJx9gIjg_rjtShxjMSWl1p7gtT49lYMelpwEAaVOOC-unZja2v2CHsWKokxWj2CcMSekV-h9E5p_7LKkBuQDeRHcLHNk.--3ONeF3E3njn6i4GFKc_EO_06h6CLneroWD_nEM2rI&dib_tag=se&keywords=raspberry%2Bpi%2B4b&qid=1724778256&s=electronics&sprefix=rasberry%2Bpi%2B4b%2Celectronics%2C129&sr=1-1&th=1)
- [4.3inch DSI Touchscreen LCD Display with Case for Raspberry Pi 4B](https://www.amazon.com/dp/B09B29T8YF/?coliid=IXOU52HY9KKDL&colid=3DH0CV6R3JLCG&ref_=list_c_wl_lv_ov_lig_dp_it&th=1)
- [Bluetooth OBD II Scanner](https://www.amazon.com/Veepeak-OBDCheck-Bluetooth-Diagnostic-Supports/dp/B073XKQQQW/ref=sr_1_2?crid=2TKSEUFTYTC0J&dib=eyJ2IjoiMSJ9.cDU5tykXBvNKabKDav9eh5h5Qbph9bgA5-QG0BN5lTpuN1Ud5sjlaOt3HjeilOAJjSZgB82fUeHNj5DBdSesmlkaLE5y21QmGkhW6-TQWs_roTX6A8kNwkImi6C_zYqbL9K-Jfei9IqlR02fezhNF9okMUYdS9d23rLWG4gGrHNUt_kydlCzeDboiAO8bTlw5Djb4s3wppV9fPohEpu4suO2ODDZB2mqncf3-ZIEt5tm5kw2hWVNcI9yipuRDSPXBtXx9N4kSMvNCq8tQcaI0owKePp1eIyxNWevf2xsGQ4.vz9kAGDDxcmWIAAc3c8dC6pOX_AT30D2pvrI-MXQH6A&dib_tag=se&keywords=elm+327+obd2+scanner+bluetooth&qid=1724778387&sprefix=elm+%2Caps%2C148&sr=8-2)

## Additional Notes

- The script simulates data in `DEV` mode. Ensure to connect a Bluetooth OBD-II adapter in production mode.
- A Bluetooth OBD-II adapter makes it cleaner, but it will also work with a wired setup.
- Any Raspberry Pi should work but just make sure you have Bluetooth unless running a wired connection.
- Feel free to customize fonts, colors, and layout as needed in the script.

## Upcoming
- Performance page: top speed tracking, 0-60 time tracking, more performance related things.

## Far Future
- Raspberry Pi hotspot for wifi connection to phone for GPS data for GPS related features.

## Versions

### v2.4.1
- Updated
  - Shift Light padding: Renamed to "Shift Starting RPM." Displays the point at which the lights start to turn on.
  - Install script: Added a part to install bluetooth stuff.

### v2.4.0
- Added
  - Shift Light Settings: can now change the colors of the shift light as well as adjust the "padding" which is how you control when the lights start turing on.

### v2.3.2
- Updated
  - Colors: Much more colors have been added.

### v2.3.1
- Fixed
  - Wifi Update: some problems associated with old code.
  - Exiting: Shutdown was encountering an error.

### v2.3.0
- Added
  - Color Customization: can now change the colors of the font and backgrounds.

### v2.2.0
- Added
  - Wifi Update: be able to update the device over wifi.

### v2.1.2
- Fixed
  - Install script bug: wouldn't let you pick a number from the bluetooth list.

### v2.1.1
- Fixed
  - Install scripts: trying to make it even easier with as little interaction as possible.

### v2.1.0
- Added
  - Customization Page: Added customization page that will be used to customize the overall look of the dash.

### v2.0.0
- Added
  - Versioning: Implemented versions for future updates.
  - Swiping gestures: Can now swipe on the screen rather than pressing hard to press buttons.
- Changed
  - Overall page layout: Changed to a 2D format to more categorize pages.

### v1.x.x 
- All previous versions were not documented.
- This is where the current readme is at.
